
Skip To Content
Dashboard

Samuel Wang
Account
Dashboard

Courses
Calendar
Inbox

History
Help

SC ARHI186C-01Syllabus
SP 2023
Home
Announcements
Syllabus
Modules
Files
Assignments
Discussions
Grades3
People
BigBlueButton
Collaborations
Google Drive
Course Syllabus
Scripps College Spring 2023 | ARHI 186C

Seminar in Asian Art: The Tale of Genji

Tuesdays and Thursdays, 2:45 – 4:00 pm, Baxter 108

Dr. Rika Hiro [she/her/hers] (rhiro@scrippscollege.edu), Office: Baxter 103

Office Hours: Mon 9:30-11:00 (over Zoom by appointment) and Thu 1:30 – 2:15 pm (drop-ins)

(Office Hours ZOOM ID: 973 9760 1001, Passcode: 333173)Links to an external site.

 

This seminar explores the world’s first psychological novel, The Tale of Genji, written by Lady Murasaki in early 11th-century Japan and its visual imagery. Focusing especially on representations of the senses in picture scrolls produced to illustrate the tale in the early 12th century, we will also attend to representations of such invisible beings as ghosts and spirits and to adaptations of the tale in popular culture. Students will engage with the collection of paintings and woodblock prints relating to Genji at the Williamson Gallery both during class and in their own research projects. The class culminates in curating an exhibition of the selected collection at the Clark Humanities Museum.

 

LEARNING OBJECTIVES

Develop skills to describe, analyze, and contextualize visual materials related to The Tale of Genji within Japan’s history and theory of art
Articulate ideas through discussions, presentations, writings, and collaborations with peers
Become familiar with different strategies deployed by scholars, curators, and artists in the field through close reading of the assigned texts and visual analysis correlated to the respective societal conditions and cultural needs
 

REQUIRED READINGS and CANVAS

Textbooks:

Murasaki Shikibu, The Tale of Genji, by Royall Tyler (New York: Penguin Books, 2003).
Or any of the following translators’ versions will do: Washburn or Seidensticker

Melissa McCormick and John T. Carpenter, The Tale of Genji: A Japanese Classic Illuminated (Metropolitan Museum of Art and Yale University Press, 2019).
Can be downloaded from McCormick’s Harvard Faculty page:

https://scholar.harvard.edu/melissamccormick/publications/tale-genji-japanese-classic-illuminatedLinks to an external site.

References:

Haruo Shirane ed., Envisioning the Tale of Genji: Media, Gender, and Cultural Production (Columbia Univ. Press, 2008). E-book available through our library: https://ccl.on.worldcat.org/oclc/682032719Links to an external site.
Melissa McCormick, The Tale of Genji: A Visual Companion (Princeton University Press, 2018). E-book available through our library: https://ccl.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1053623330Links to an external site.
Marks, Andreas, and Ruth Chandler Williamson Gallery.Genji's World in Japanese Woodblock Prints: From the Paulette and Jack Lantz Collection (Scripps College in association with Hotei Publishing, 2012).
Fifty-Four Scenes from The Tale of Genji, Pair of six-panel folding screens, Edo: Late 17th century, The Met, Mary Griggs Burke Collection, Gift of the Mary and Jackson Burke Foundation, 2015. https://www.metmuseum.org/art/collection/search/671027Links to an external site.
     

Weekly readings will be available as PDFs or web links under the Modules on the course website on Canvas (https://scrippscollege.instructure.com/Links to an external site.) unless otherwise stated. PowerPoint slides with key images and ideas discussed in class will be uploaded, too. Please note that these materials as well as readings are all under copyright and for personal study use only. If you need technical assistance or need to report a problem with Canvas, consult the Canvas Help page or contact help@scrippscollege.edu. For other technical help, please refer to Claremont CollegesIT Support:  https://it.claremont.eduLinks to an external site..

Electronic devices that are not necessary for classroom discussions should be silenced and put away. Other helpful resources are:

 

Scripps Ruth Chandler Williamson Gallery collection online:
https://web-kiosk.scrippscollege.edu/?_ga=2.59663917.1880684431.1641845215-989400559.1637691145Links to an external site.

Scripps has an extensive collection of Genji prints from the Edo to especially Meiji periods as well as contemporary ones. Selections are included in the Genji's World in Japanese Woodblock Prints exhibition. Please familiarize yourself with what we have, especially you will produce short papers about Genji prints of your choice.

Heilbrunn Timeline of Art History, the Met: https://www.metmuseum.org/toah/Links to an external site.,
Useful for learning about the general chronology of art history, key concepts, mediums, and techniques in reference to the Metropolitan Museum’s encyclopedic collection

Oxford Art Online: Encyclopedia of art and artists, accessible through our library system
Asian Art Museum, San Francisco’s Education Resources: https://education.asianart.org/?_ga=2.139140592.297560062.1630089492-279982453.1630089492Links to an external site.
 

PowerPoint slides with key images and ideas discussed in class will be also shared on Canvas. Please note that these materials as well as readings are all under copyright and for personal study use only. If you need technical assistance or need to report a problem with Canvas, consult the Canvas Help page or contact help@scrippscollege.edu. For other technical help, please refer to Claremont Colleges IT Support:  https://it.claremont.eduLinks to an external site.. Lastly, electronic devices that are not necessary for classroom discussions should be silenced and put away.

 

PANDEMIC NOTE 

The COVID-19 pandemic continues to pose unique challenges to learning. As a group, we will endeavor to foster intellectual nourishment, social connection, and personal accommodation. Adjustment and flexibility to scheduling and content delivery may be needed.   

Health and Safety Inside the Classroom: By enrolling in this class, you agree to abide by LA County Department of Public Health and the Claremont Colleges regulations. You agree to always wear a mask The professor retains the right to maintain this policy for the entirety of the semester, even if County regulations deem otherwise.  
Students who are feeling ill should not attend class in person. Though attendance and participation are graded, the assessment may occur through other avenues instead of physical presence and accommodations will be made for illness and quarantine.
If you experience anything that compromises your safety or well-being, please seek immediate health or wellness resources on campus. Scripps COVID support line is (909)-308-2711. Student Health Services phoneis (909) 621-8222. For 24/7 online healthcare through 7C Health: http://7c.healthLinks to an external site.. Monsour Counseling:
https://services.claremont.edu/mcaps/Links to an external site. .

After-hours crisis support is available by calling (909) 621-8202. 

 

COURSE REQUIREMENTS AND GRADING SCALE

Attendance and Engagement 20%

Reading Journal 10%

Formal Analysis Paper 15 %

            Presentations 5 %

Rewrite as Object Labels 10%

Project Proposal 5%

Annotated Bibliography 5 %

Presentation 5 %

Research Paper or Creative Project 25%

 

100-94: A     93-90: A-    89-87: B+     86-83: B    82-80: B-    79-77: C+    76-73: C   72-70: C-

 

69-67: D+     66-63: D-    62-60: D-     59-: F

 

ACADEMIC ACCOMMODATIONS

Considering the design of this course (no tests or exams and scaffolded research assignments), accommodations related to testing will not be needed. However, if you are concerned about other accommodations for this course, please let me know as soon as possible so we can discuss this further, and/or contact the Office of Academic Resources and Services at ars@scrippscollege.edu. (The office also provides Tutoring Program, a peer-based one-on-one or small group service.) Please note that a student’s home campus is responsible for establishing and providing accommodations. If you are not a Scripps student, you must contact your home institution: CMC: AccessibilityServices@cmc.edu; HMC: access@g.hmc.edu; Pitzer:  gabriella_tempestoso@pitzer.edu; Pomona: disability@pomona.edu;

 

ASSIGNMENTS AND ACADEMIC CONDUCT

Assignments must be submitted through Canvas. Late submissions will be docked one-half grade for each day they are overdue. Any request for an extension with adequate reasons must be made prior to the assignment’s due date. Cheating and/or plagiarism seriously violate the principles of academic integrity that Scripps College expects its students to uphold. Academic dishonesty is not tolerated at Scripps and may result in suspension or expulsion from the College. Should you feel pressured to seek to plagiarize the work of others because of challenges you are facing, please speak to me for guidance. Also, be sure to familiarize yourself with the College policies on academic ethics and misconduct in Guide to Student LifeLinks to an external site..

Attendance and Engagement: Your attentive attitude and thoughtful participation are critical to your understanding of the course materials, our collective learning, and to the success of the course. Please complete the reading beforehand and participate in class discussions and group activities to the best of your ability, while respecting your peers’ opinions. Your active engagement with the course materials outside class meetings will also be counted toward your engagement grade. I am eager to help you and make the course meaningful to all of us. Please do not hesitate to contact me and schedule private or group meetings.

All absences due to illnesses, school-related activities, religious observances, and other emergencies must be cleared with me beforehand or immediately afterward. More than one unexpected absence will be counted against your engagement grade. Please review the course materials on Canvas and borrow notes from your peers before coming to me for questions. 

 

Reading Journal: Please post your brief and informal response (approx. 200 words) to the reading(s) onto Canvas by one hour prior to each meeting unless otherwise stated. (Supplementary readings are not required.) Your entries will not be graded but you will get points for completing them. Late submissions will receive partial points. Use these entries as a way to clarify your understanding of the readings and to prepare yourself for class discussions. For example, your entry can include: a few sentences summarizing what the reading is about, thoughtful questions for discussion, comments on what you have read, and/or anything new. (It is also helpful to mark at least 1 passage from each reading that you think is key and merits further attention/discussion.) You can opt-out of 1 entry.

 

Comparative Visual Analysis Paper (Due SUNDAY, 2/12): You will work on formal and comparative analyses (4-page) of select Genji works from the Williamson Gallery collection. The paper will be updated as an extended object label (Due SUNDAY, 2/19). We will discuss the assignment details later in the semester.

 

Project Proposal (Due Sunday, 4/9), Annotated Bibliography (Due Sunday, 4/16), and Term Project (Due Tuesday, 5/2, for graduating seniors, 5/9 for others): You will write an 8- 10-page research paper or make artwork on The Tale of Genji. As preparation, you will complete a project proposal and an annotated bibliography and present your term project to your peers. Detailed guidelines on the assignments will be given later in the semester.

 

WRITING AND RESEARCH SUPPORT

Throughout the term, we will be reviewing assignment guidelines and there will be plenty of time for you to ask questions. It is highly recommended that you also make an appointment with the Writing Center: https://www.scrippscollege.edu/departments/writing-program/writing-centerLinks to an external site.. 

For library and research assistance, contact Kendra MacComber, Claremont Colleges Library’s Art& Humanities Librarian, at Kendra.Macomber@claremont.edu.

 EMAIL

The primary mode of communication for the course will be email. All email communication will be through your college address, which you should check regularly. I will try to respond to your emails as quickly as I can, but please allow me at least 24 hours (excluding weekends and holidays). Substantive questions about class materials or personal concerns are better addressed during office hours.

 

Updated COURSE SCHEDULE (subject to change or adjustment)

Week 11: The Scent and Taste of the Heian Court

3/28 T  

Barak Kushner, “Court Food Versus Common Food,” Slurp!: A Social and Culinary History of Ramen - Japan's Favorite Noodle Soup (Leiden: Global Oriental, 2012), 33-37.
(Supplementary reading) Selections from Sei Shōnagon, The Pillow Book, trans. by Ivan Morris (Columbia University Press, 2018) https://ccl.on.worldcat.org/oclc/1059413507Links to an external site.

3/30 R   

Excerpt from Ch. 32 Umegae 
Aileen Gatten, “A Wisp of Smoke: Scent and Character in The Tale of Genji,”Monumenta Nipponica, 32, no. 1 (1977): 35–48. 
 

Week 12 Ghosts and Spirits with Professor Bruce Coats; Visual Sounds and Musical Writing

4/4 T With Professor Bruce Coats

Review/read “4. Yūgao (The Twilight Beauty)”
Review on A Rustic Genji
Bruce Coats, “The Changing Face of ‘The Twilight Beauty’ (Yūgao) in Genji Prints,” Genji's World in Japanese Woodblock Prints, 22-39.
Selections from Bargen’s A Woman's Weapon: Spirit Possession in the Tale of Genji
(Supplementary reading)

Nancy J Barnes, “Lady Rokujō’s Ghost: Spirit Possession, Buddhism, and Healing in Japanese
4/6 R Visual Sounds and Musical Writings

Gagaku: Music for Eternity. Marty Gross Film Productions, 2011. https://ccl.on.worldcat.org/v2/oclc/964566318Links to an external site.
Yoshiko Kobayashi, “The Function of Music in The Tale of Genji,” Journal of Comparative Literature 33 (1990): 253–260.
(Supplementary reading)

Kristopher Kersey, “In Defiance of Collage: Assembling Modernity ca. 1112 CE.”Archives of Asian Art 68 no. 1 (April 2018): 1–32.
Yoshiaki Shimizu, “The Rite of Writing: Thoughts on the Oldest Genji Text,” RES: Anthropology and Aesthetics 16 (Autumn 1988): 54–63.
Sunday 4/9 Term Project Proposal Due
 

Week 13: Manga Visualizations of Genji and Genji Reimagined in Film

4/11 T Manga Visualizations of Genji

Yuika Kitamura, “Sexuality, Gender, and The Tale of Genji in Modern Japanese Translations and Manga,” Envisioning the Tale of Genji: Media, Gender, and Cultural Production, 329-357.
Lynne K. Miyake, “Graphically Speaking: Manga Versions of ‘The Tale of Genji,’”Monumenta Nipponica, 63, no. 2 (2008): 359–92.
Excerpt from Yamato Waki, “Genji monogatari asakiyumemishi/The Tale of Genji: Fleeting Dreams.”
(Supplementary reading)

Yamato Waki, “Genji monogatari Asakiyumemishi/The Tale of Genji: Fleeting Dreams,” The Tale of Genji: A Japanese Classic Illuminated, 320-325.
4/14 R Genji Reimagined in Film

In-class screening of Horikawa Tonkō, Love of a Thousand Years (2001)
Kazuhiro Tateishi, “The Tale of Genji in Postwar Film,” Envisioning the Tale of Genji: Media, Gender, and Cultural Production, 303-328.
Sunday 4/16 Annotated Bibliography Due
 

Week 14 Genji in Global Culture and Individual Meetings

4/18 T

Virginia Woolf, “The Tale of Genji” (1925), Vogue (July 1925)
MichaelEmmerich, “Reimagining the Canon,” The Tale of Genji: Translation, Canonization, and World Literature (Columbia University Press, 2013), 43-46.
Postwar Genji prints
4/20 R Individual Meeting on Term Project (no reading journal)

 

Week 15 & 16 Student Presentations

4/25 T, 4/27 R Students Presentations [5/2 Reserved for student’s presentation/seminar wrap-up] 

Tuesday, 5/2 or 5/9  Term Project Due
 

